1	/Setting up React environment, Create React App
2	/Hello World, Components, JSX
3	/Functional vs class components, Props
4	/State, Lifecycle methods
5	/Hooks – useState, useEffect, useContext
6	/Event handling
7	/Forms – controlled components, submission, validation
8	/Conditional rendering – if, ternary, &&
9	Lists and keys
10	Importance of keys
11	/Styling – CSS, CSS Modules, CSS-in-JS
12	React Router – setup, routes, parameters
13	/Redux – setup, actions, reducers
14	Async/await, Promises, Fetch API
15	/Error handling, debugging, optimization
16	Deployment – Netlify, Vercel, AWS



Module 1. Introduction to React.js 
This part of the course will help you set up a React development environment and understand all the necessary tools required to be installed on your systems to run react.js.

Setting up a React development environment (e.g., Node.js, npm, Create React App)
Module 2. Creating Your First React Application 
Once React is installed, it’s time to learn coding in React.js. This part of the course will introduce you to some basic React coding examples, understand its components, and know JSX (Javascript XML) syntax.

Hello World example 
Understanding React components 
JSX syntax 
Module 3. Understanding Components and Props 
Components are like functions in React that return HTML elements. Here, we will learn the two main types of React Components: functional components and class components. Further, props (referred to as properties) are the arguments you pass into React Components via HTML attributes. This section of the course will also cover the details about props, how to use them, and passing props in React.

Functional components 
Class components 
Passing and using props 
Module 4. State and Lifecycle 
React State is an instance of the React Component Class that can be an object of a set of observable properties controlling the behaviour of the component. There are multiple conventions of using State, and you will get a clear understanding of them from this section. You will learn component lifecycle methods that control the components’ behaviour and perform certain tasks at different stages of their life cycle.

State in React components 
Updating state 
Component lifecycle methods 
Module 5. React Hooks 
From this section, you can learn about React hooks that allow function components to access react features like State and life cycle methods. This part will mainly cover react useState(), useEffect(), and useContext() hooks.

useState() 
useEffect() 
useContext() 
Module 6. Handling Events 
Event handling in React allows users to interact with a web page and take certain actions when an event occurs, like a click or a hover. You can learn everything about event handling, binding event handlers, and the difference between arrow functions and regular functions from this section.

Event handling in React 
Binding event handlers
Arrow functions vs. regular functions 
Module 7. Working with Forms 
Forms are used in React to allow users to interact with web pages.  You will learn about React forms, handling form submission and form validation from this part of the course. Additionally, you will get a brief understanding of control components in React.

Controlled components 
Handling form submission 
Form validation 
Module 8. Conditional Rendering 
React allows users to conditionally render React components. You can use if statements to decide which React component to render or use ternary operators and logical && operators for the same. But to know how to use them, this section will be helpful. 

Conditional rendering with if statements 
Ternary operators and logical && in JSX 
Module 9. Lists and Keys 
This section of the course gives a brief understanding of React Lists and Keys, how to use .map() to render lists of elements, and the way of providing keys to each list item. Keys allow users to keep track of elements in a React list.

Rendering Lists 
Using .map() to render lists of elements 
Providing a key for each item
Module 10. Understanding Keys 
This segment of the course gives a brief understanding of the importance of using React Keys and how you can choose the correct key for each list element.

The importance of keys in React 
Choosing the correct key 
Module 11. Styling in React.js 
There are multiple ways for styling in React.js using CSS that you will learn here, including inline styles, different styling approaches, styling libraries, and popular CSS frameworks.

CSS in React 
Different approaches for styling (CSS, CSS-in-JS, CSS Modules)  
Inline styles 
Styling Libraries 
Popular CSS frameworks (e.g., Bootstrap, Material-UI) 
Module 12. React Router
This is a standard library for routing support in React and allows navigation among multiple views of different components in a React application. In this section, you will learn about React routers, how to set up a router, create routes, pass parameters to routes, nested routes, and dynamic routing.

Introduction to React Router 
Setting up React Router 
Creating routes 
Navigating with React Router 
Using Link and NavLink 
Nested Routes and Dynamic Routing 
Nested routes 
Passing parameters to routes 
Module 13. State Management with Redux 
In React, effective state management entails the ability to store and update data in an application, and Redux helps manage and update the application state using events. This section will introduce you to Regex and its basic concepts: setting up and installing Regex, connecting React with Regex, and creating and dispatching actions. 

Introduction to Redux 
Understanding the need for state management 
Basic concepts: actions, reducers, store 
Setting Up Redux 
Installing Redux and setting up a store 
Creating actions and reducers 
Connecting React with Redux 
Using connect to connect components to the store 
Dispatching actions 
Module 14. Asynchronous Programming and API Integration 
In React, there are multiple ways of fetching data asynchronously from an API. You will learn in-depth about asynchronous programming and API integration, along with making HTTP requests and fetching data from an API. 

AJAX and Fetch API 
Making HTTP requests in React 
Fetching data from an API 
Async/Await and Promises 
Module 15. Handling errors in React applications 
Error handling is an essential task in developing a user-friendly React application. There can be different types of errors that can impact the effectiveness of an application or its performance. You will learn error handling and debugging from this section of the course, along with understanding React.memo and PureComponent, Memoization, and performance optimisation.

Error Handling and Debugging 
Debugging React apps 
Performance Optimization 
Memoization
React.memo and PureComponent
Module 16. Deploying a React application
Finally, this course will give learners a clear understanding of how to deploy React applications along with necessary cloud services like Netlify, AWS, and more.

Deployment Cloud Services (Netlify, Vercel, AWS)
